---
layout: archive
title: "Research"
permalink: /research/
author_profile: true
---

# Work In Progress

**Optimal Distribution of Polluting Activities Across Apace: An application to France** _(Job Market Paper)_

Should the largest cities be the most polluting? On the one hand, spatial concentration of economic activities brings welfare gains through agglomeration economies and increased local real wages. On the other hand, aggregating too much polluting activities in the same place leads to lower air quality and detrimental effects on health and productivity of local workers. Building on a spatial general equilibrium model, featuring endogenous pollution, trade, and between-cities migration, I investigate welfare effects of the spatial heterogeneity of local stringencies resulting from current air pollutants regulations. I calibrate the model using French data and show that current emission policies target the most populated cities. As a result, these cities are less polluting and relatively larger than what they would be under a spatially homogenous policy stringency. However, I also find that taking into account productivity and amenity intrinsic local endowments could lead to higher welfare gains.

**Estimating the Effects of Incomplete Regulation on Regulated Firms and their Competitors: An Application to the EU ETS**

_Co-authored with Geoffrey Barrows, Raphael Calel & Hélène Ollivier_

Shocks to demand and supply often apply unevenly across firms within an industry. When evaluating the impacts of such shocks, researchers often rely on statistical methods that compare directly affected firms to “control” firms in the same industry, but in many cases, these “control” firms are affected by the shock itself via competition on the output market with directly-affected firms. While this point is widely acknowledged, there has been little effort to address it empirically. In this paper, we develop a new method for estimating both the direct effect and the indirect effect of a shock to marginal cost on some firms in an industry when products are differentiated, and firms behave strategically. We apply our method to French manufacturers under the EU ETS regulation. We find that this regulation tended to increase sales of regulated firms and reduce CO2 emission intensity. The results are consistent with the Porter hypothesis: regulation induced cost-saving investments which both lowered emission intensity and increased sales.

# Journal Articles

**Biomass for energy in the EU – The support framework** -  [Energy Policy, 2019](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0301421519302873)

_Co-authored with Manjola Banja, Richard Sikkema, Vincenzo Motola & Jean-François Dallemand_

This paper aims to produce a quantitative approach on the overall measures and on public support framework for biomass for energy, based on the EU countries reports under RED and existing literature. The way in which the support for biomass is implemented in the EU energy sector is not similar across EU countries. Feed-in tariffs and feed-in-premiums are still the dominant support schemes for the deployment of bioelectricity, whereas subsidies remain the main support for bioheat. Furthermore, a vast number of EU countries apply mandatory blending quotas for biofuels for transport. The paper shows that biomass for energy has a key role within the EU policy support for RES, in which targets are the main drivers, together with overarching biomass guidelines to anticipate any environmental constraints. Stable support showed the highest effectiveness in the past and remains the key factor for biomass deployment beyond 2020. The renewed targets need to be accompanied by long-term support measures and a commonly shared policy vision. A further harmonization of public bioenergy support towards a single EU cleaner energy market is recommended. This implies four policy actions for all EU countries: in-depth efficiency review, integration with RED-2, compatible sustainability guidelines and local impact assessments.

**Support for biogas in the EU electricity sector – A comparative analysis** - [Biomass and Bioenergy, 2019](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0961953419302624)

_Co-authored with Manjola Banja, Richard Sikkema & Vincenzo Motola_

This paper aims to present a comparative analysis of biogas electricity deployment in EU countries over the period of 2010–2017. The analysis shows that the deployment of biogas electricity is mainly linked to the moment of the shift in the support framework, the maturity of tenders and the feasibility of long-term objectives. With 200 incentives in place the EU has created favourable conditions to support biogas electricity. Manure and waste are the main feedstocks of biogas electricity in the EU that receive the highest incentives. However, the recent shift towards capacity market mechanism has had an adverse effect in the deployment of biogas electricity. The way in which the biogas is currently valorised, has not been very effective in some EU countries. We found that the EU average growth rate of biogas electricity over 2016–2017 dropped 4 times compared with 2014–2016. Plans/targets have been very supportive in the fast deployment of biogas electricity. Nevertheless, a clear post 2020 picture for renewables is still missing in several EU countries that are risking lagging in biogas electricity deployment. The future of biogas is been seen promising on the upgrade to biomethane as a sustainable input for environment and economy.

**An Analysis of Capacity Market Mechanism for Solar Photovoltaics in France** - [IJSG, 2019](https://www.ijsmartgrid.org/index.php/ijsmartgridnew/article/download/36/pdf)

The energy policy in France that focuses on energy transition and reduction of greenhouse gases, has provided favourable conditions for the deployment of solar photovoltaics. In September 2018 more than 80% of the expected plan of solar photovoltaics capacity for this year was reached. After 2010 the support for solar photovoltaics in France took the form of capacity market mechanism. This paper aims to provide insight to this shift that brought the highest additional installed capacity of solar photovoltaics in France. The objective of this paper is to provide an indicative analysis on how the capacity market mechanism for solar photovoltaics in France has changed over years and how administrative procedures related to this mechanism have been improved. The analysis shows that this system has been favourable to small scale producers even that lately a tendency is seen to move towards large-scale projects. The system has seen a high level of competition, especially between ground-mounted projects, oversubscribing the required volume with more than 12 times. For each MW solar photovoltaics required through calls for tender, 3.5 MW were offered by the submitted dossiers. We found that in 2017 the average price of tenders for solar photovoltaics almost halved compared with the level this indicator had in 2011. For ground mounted solar photovoltaics projects, the prices decreased by 72%. For rooftop installations the decrease accounted for 60%. Despite the improvements done in administrative procedures, still some barriers are in place influencing the speed of the deployment of solar photovoltaics technology in France.
